on how it's made we shed light on the
production of torches before brushing up
on our knowledge of DIY tools see you
after the break
the torch can illuminate any situation
the first version was invented in the
late 19th century it produced only
forces rather than a constant beam hence
the name flashlight today they're rather
more sophisticated so let's shine a
light on their production the torch
shows us the way when things look dim to
make a military torch they place an
aluminium bar in a computerized lathe
blades go to work and shape it into a
torch body as a drill hollows out the
bar coolant flushes over it to prevent
the metal from expanding as the tooling
heats things up this blade cuts threads
on the outside so they can screw on a
torch lens cap later
a gripper now pulls out the tube so
tools can work on the back half a blade
Slim's that section down and then carves
a cross weave onto it this heavy texture
will make the torch easier to grip
next a hole is drilled into the torch's
tail stud it's an attachment for the
wrist strap
after the torch body has taken shape it
receives a black protective coating next
using tons of force a machine injects
hot plastic into a mold which forms the
lens for the torch the lens is placed in
a jig and the mold core unscrewed the
core has formed threads in the lens so
it can be screwed onto the torch body
later another injection mold is used to
make plastic torch bodies the plastic
torches are for more general use than
the aluminium ones for custom orders a
logo is stamped onto the torch using a
hot oil press
next light emitting diodes are inserted
into a circuit board the diodes are
electronic lamps that are very bright
and used instead of traditional
incandescent bulbs the diodes wires are
soldered to a circuit board and then
trimmed the diodes are now secured and
connected to the circuit board the
bigger torches they used lots of diodes
up to sixty of them for this torch
that's being made for search-and-rescue
work next a stamping press shapes the
bronze battery contacts an ultrasonic
welder bonds them to a plastic plate
then a wire is soldered from the diodes
to the contacts
the lump part of the torch is now built
now Springs are inserted into the
aluminium torch bodies the batteries are
loaded and the springs hold them in
place the lamp assembly is slid into the
torch cavity and the lens is screwed on
this aluminium flashlight has been put
together in a flash they move on to
plastic torches the battery contact and
spring assembly goes in followed by the
batteries the light emitting diode lamp
is next the lens is screwed onto the
lump
the plastic glare shield is the final
touch now these torches are ready to
shine